So now we're updating the information in our header, for our messages,
we want to do the same, the edit and delete button should only be visible if we are authenticated.
Of course we can simply go to the post-list component and edit it there.
For that, we can implement the same logic we have in the header component.
We'll first of all inject our auth service with private or public, that by the way
doesn't really matter here,
you can use either. With public,
you could theoretically directly access the service from within your template, though this is discouraged,
so you can also just use private here.
So I will use private auth service of type auth service and we import that of course from our auth service
file,
so this path needs to be added.
That yields the auth service and now again, we need to set up that listener.
So first of all, I'll add a private property for the subscription, authStatusSubs or sub which is of
type subscription and in ngOnInit, I want to set it up. There we have our post service subscription
for the posts next to it
and remember, this will execute immediately after this because it will not wait for that subscription
to yield something.
There I add this auth service, get AuthStatusListener and call subscribe on the return observable and
the result of the subscribed call is the subscription which I'll store in authStatusSub. authStatusSub
is then cleared in ngOnDestroy,
there I will call this
authStatusSub
unsubscribe. With that,
we have to do something in that subscribe method here.
There we again get the isAuthenticated information,
so a boolean which is true or false telling us whether the user is authenticated or not and I want
to store this in a special property on this page.
So there I will add a public property which is userIsAuthenticated
again, you can name this whatever you want of course
and then in my subscription here, I will set this userIsAuthenticated equal to the isAuthenticated
information I'm getting from my service.
We can now use that userIsAuthenticated property in the template
and as I mentioned, this whole action row should only be shown if we are authenticated. So here I will add
ngIf userIsAuthenticated, only then this should be added to the DOM, otherwise it shouldn't.
So now if we reload the app and therefore we are not logged in, we can see that we get no buttons down
there
and that's correct
and as soon as I do login here and I go back, we actually also don't see them.
Now this can be quite challenging to identify, what's the issue here?
The problem is in the post list component, we're setting up our listener, right,
and this of course means whenever we push that authentication information, this will be updated here.
But the problem is the post list component is only loaded after we logged in because we navigated to it,
so ngOnInit only runs after we have authenticated ourselves.
So this of course means there is no new information being pushed after the post list component has been
created and we don't fetch the current information here,
we just push new information.
Now there are a couple of ways of solving this, one is for example to use a different type of subject.
There is a subject which automatically should yield you the previous value but I will use a very straightforward
way instead. Here in auth service,
I will simply add a new private property, isAuthenticated which I'll set to false initially and I will
set it to true in the same place where I push that information,
so here I will set this isAuthenticated equal to true or at least I want to do that if we have a token
because that's a check
I should add anyways, only if we have a valid token, only then I want to set this to true and only then
I want to change the status.
So I will first of all check if we have that token because we could have gotten a response which contains
no token,
so only if that is the case I want to set this
but if it is the case, well then I will use this isAuthenticated and set this to true and push that
information to the other components.
Now since we have this authenticated property in this component now, I can add a new method here at the top,
getAuthStatus or maybe getIsAuth and there I will return
this is authenticated
and now we can call this method to find out whether the user is authenticated. In the post list
component,
I will do that.
I will register this listener because this will become important once we connect the logout button
which will be in here and therefore we are on the page when the auth status changes
but for now when we first visit the page, I will have set this user is authenticated by reaching out
to the auth service and calling getIsAuth there.
And now with that, if we reload and I login
and I go back to my messages, now we correctly see the buttons.
So now this is also working in this case.
Now we're still not there yet,
we need to connect the logout button and we also have another issue. If we are not authenticated, we can still
create a new post by manually entering the URL, I can enter /create here and boom, I'm on the
creation page,
I also want to prevent this.
So still some work to do.